stinky dog breath is really gross but
what's worse is that it could mean your
dog has not you honey as dental it's
something you should know dr. Andrea
Sanchez from greenies and Banfield Pet
Hospital joins us for National Pet
Dental Health Month welcome to you dr.
Sanchez saying thank you for joining us
how serious a problem is pets teeth and
dental problems right well pet dental
health is actually a big problem and
it's very under recognized problem a
study by Banfield Pet Hospital actually
proved that 91% of dogs over the age of
three have dental disease and what's
more it's actually the most common
diagnosis and cats as well so it's a big
problem and why is that the people just
aren't checking their their dogs and
cats teeth actually it is that's that's
a big part of it I mean our pets are
living longer they're our babies you
know Jasper's probably your baby Yeah
right and so I've kept a living longer
and so there's more that we need to do
to to prevent dental disease so Jackie
is here with her wonderful dog Shiloh
what can she do to keep her dog's mouth
clean and healthy good question well
Jackie in addition to Shiloh's annual
dental cleaning at his veterinarian we
recommend that you get into a three step
routine at home every single day and you
can do this with Jasper - Meredith so
the three step routine goes like this
flip check and treat so every day I'm
gonna start with a flip of the lip here
I'm gonna flip Shiloh's lip up and get a
good look and the second step is
checking what I'm checking for right
here is yellow or brown discoloration of
Shiloh's teeth okay redness or
inflammation and his gums and even the
bad breath like you mentioned before but
you don't have doesn't so so Shiloh has
been really good about this and I might
even take this opportunity if he lets me
to introduce a dry pet toothbrush and
just be running the toothbrush along the
side of his teeth like to remove any
tartar and if he's good for all this the
most important step is absolutely to
reward him for this so I am rewarding
him with a treat a greenies dental chew
this is not just any treat Meredith this
is a treat that bolsters the effect of
tooth brushing it really enhances the
effect because it's textured it's a
textured dental treat that's designed to
remove plaque off the teeth the same way
that tooth brushing does and it rewards
and look at he loves he loves it yeah
if you recommend like one a day or yeah
generally one a day is a good is a good
way to go always check with your
veterinarian and see how often your
veterinarian would recommend that you
treat with the Greenies double-check dr.
Sanchez thank you so much Jackie thank
you thank you Charlie you have beautiful
crab everyone in the audience actually
not that you have bad breath everyone's
going home with a greenies goodie bag
the number one vet recommended that
specialty dental tree for more
information visit marinara shown calm
you